# What is Redis?
Redis is a non-relational database management system with basic data structure support for _lists_, _hashes_, _sets_, and _zsets_ (ordered sets). Documents are not tied together by relations (foreign and primary keys), and as such, SQL queries are not executed on this database. _(This is also referred to as a NOSQL database system.)_ Redis stores information in the form of documents, where a document is in the form of one of the aforementioned data structure types, or numerical/string representations.

Redis typically operates on a single-node basis, but can be configured to operate in a cluster mode, where there are a series of master nodes and worker nodes attached. Data is partitioned amongst the master nodes, and the worker nodes replicate the data of the masters such that, should a master node go down, one of the workers can take over and become a 'master' until the original is up and running again. (It's heavily recommended that for every master node in a cluster configuration, there is at least one worker node beside it to replicate its data.)

# Partitioning and Sharding
### **Partitioning**
Redis partitions data using hash slots - that is, each document being sent to the database is resolved to be one of these slots (ranged 0 to 16384). Each master node in a cluster is given a certain number of slots. _(For example, in a 6-node cluster, with 3 masters and 3 workers, 2 of the masters accomodate 5461 of the slots, with the tertiary 5462 slots.)_ Whatever slot the data resolves to determines the master node the data is sent to. <u>[CHK]</u> Connection can be established to any of the nodes, since each stores references to the other nodes.

### **Sharding**
The worker nodes in a cluster occasionally ping the master nodes, checking if there is any data to be replicated. If there is, then the data is eventually duplicated by the nodes. _(This, in turn, doubles the amount of memory storage required for data.)_ If a worker node detects that a master is down, then after a predefined amount of time, the worker takes over the role of master, and dishes any data requested that it has access to.